
[//]: # "This file is generated by [mdoc](https://scalameta.org/mdoc). Do not edit it directly as it will be overwritten. Instead edit corresponding file in docs folder."

# e-core

Common concepts of e are:

| Name    | Description                                                                  |
| ------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| E       | The main error model of e                                                    |
| Maybe   | To provide a value of some type, with the possibility of failing with an `E` |
| Encoder | To convert an `E` to another type                                            |
| Decoder | To construct an `E` from another type                                        |
| Codec   | A combination of `Encoder` and `Decoder`                                     |

This module defines most of these common concepts. It is written in Java.

Each e module implements these for different platforms, providing almost same functionality (with the exception of some platform-dependent minor differences).

e-core contains only abstract definitions by itself. You would probably want to use an implementation module for Java/Scala/Kotlin unless you want to implement things yourself.

## E

[`AbstractE`](src/main/java/e/AbstractE.java) provides a common structure for `E` implementations. According to this, an error has

* name - describing/categorizing the type of error, typically a machine readable (enum-like) value
* message - human readable message describing the error
* code - an integer value corresponding to the type of error
* cause - some value that caused the error, typically an exception
* data - some data related to the error, typically a key-value map

Implementations of `AbstractE` provide fluent APIs for constructing and modifying error values, as well as defining concrete types for `cause` and `data` of an error.

## Encoder

[`AbstractEncoder<AbstractE, OUT>`](src/main/java/e/AbstractEncoder.java) provides encode functionality such that given `E` can be converted to another value of type `OUT`. Implementation modules provide a version of this with a concrete `E` type.

## Decoder

[`AbstractDecoder<IN, AbstractE>`](src/main/java/e/AbstractDecoder.java) provides decode functionality such that given an input of type `IN`, an `E` can be constructed. Implementation modules provide a version of this with a concrete `E` type.
